As we said in our original list, the world
is a strange and mysterious place where anything
can happen.
These are 10 more crazy “what if” situations
about everyday life, and even alternate history
scenarios.
10.
What Happened if We Evolved Alongside a Competitive
Species?
One thing that really helped humans become
the dominant species on Earth is that we became
technologically advanced and no other species
did.
This raises the alternate history question:
what would have happened if another species,
say chimpanzees, became technologically advanced
alongside us?
It really shouldn’t be a big surprise, but
we would be constantly at war with them.
Humans have been going to war with each other
over resources, ideologies, and nationalities
for thousands of years, so why would we treat
a completely different species any better?
William Harcourt-Smith, a paleoanthropologist
at the American Museum of Natural History,
says that perhaps, after tens of thousands
of years of war, we might be able to find
peace if we settled in different geographical
areas and used different resources, like humans
focused on animal husbandry and lived inland,
while “The Others” fished and lived on
the coasts.
Harcourt-Smith points out that monkeys living
in the same tree usually ignore each other
unless they are fighting for resources and
humans act in a very similar way.
9.
What Happened if a Woman Took Viagra?
On Viagra’s official website, it clearly
states that women should not take Viagra,
which is a brand name version of the drug
sildenafil.
That being said, there have been a few studies
on the effects of sildenafil on women.
One study found that it works in a similar
way that it does in men.
In a study that was published in The Journal
of the American Medical Association, researchers
gave half a group of women who were taking
the antidepressant medication serotonin reuptake
inhibitors (which are known to cause a low
libido) sugar pills.
The other half were given sildenafil.
They found that the women who took sildenafil
had better orgasms, but it didn’t do anything
to their sex drive.
It should also be noted that the study was
funded by Pfizer, who happens to be the manufacturer
of Viagra.
Also, sildenafil does more than just help
men with erectile dysfunction.
It is also used to treat a form of high blood
pressure called pulmonary arterial hypertension
in both men and women, so technically some
women already use Viagra.
For several years, many pharmaceutical companies
have tried to develop a female equivalent
to Viagra, but to no avail.
And if Pfizer knew, or even thought that it
worked in females, extensive testing would
have been conducted and it’d be available
to be sold.
8.
What Would Happen if a Man Took Birth Control?
This one is a bit more difficult to answer
because there are dozens of birth control
pills that act differently from one another,
because they contain different levels of the
synthetic hormones estrogen and/or progestin.
If the pills have high levels of estrogen,
it can lead to changes in the male body over
a long period of time.
Some changes include a lower sex drive, having
problems getting and maintaining an erection,
lower sperm count, and shrunken testicles.
It also leads to muscle loss and may make
the bones weaker.
Facial and body hair may become thinner as
well.
It’s also possible that it could lead to
mood changes, like a more mild temperament.
Of course, that is over a long period of time.
If a male accidentally takes a few, he won’t
feel its effects.
7.
What Would Happen if the Internet Shut Down
for a Day?
It’s a beautiful morning, you’re lying
in bed and you reach for your smart device
to see what’s going in the world.
That’s when you notice that your internet
isn’t working.
You check with your neighbors and you find
out the internet is down for everyone.
It turns out there was a solar storm that
knocked the entire internet offline around
the globe.
What should you expect if this were to happen
in real life?
Armageddon!
Break into your neighbor’s house, crack
their heads open and feast on the goo inside
because the downfall of humanity has begun!
Actually, don’t worry, it won’t be that
bad.
First off, getting everyone back online will
be every internet service provider’s top
priority, so the internet should not be down
for very long.
If the outage lasts for a few days, the economy
may not even be too severely impacted.
People will continue on doing the things they
normally would that don’t involve the internet.
In fact, some companies may benefit from the
internet outage, as it will give them a chance
to get caught up on tasks they have been postponing
because they spent time goofing off online.
Yes, online giants like Facebook and Google
will be hard hit, but what is everyone going
to do as soon as the internet comes back online?
They’ll probably have more visitors in those
first few hours after the internet comes back
online than they do in a week.
Scott Borg, who works at the non-profit organization
United States Cyber Consequences Unit, compares
a short term internet outage to the economic
depression during a long weekend, and the
world’s economy is set up to handle the
occasional long weekend.
Overall, it would essentially be like one
big snow day… albeit a very, very boring
snow day.
6.
What Would Have Happened if Neanderthals Didn’t
Go Extinct?
Neanderthals and humans started to branch
off from a common ancestor 700,000 years ago
and completely split apart about 300,000 years
ago.
For reasons unknown, they went extinct about
42,000 to 30,000 years ago.
But what if they didn’t?
Would they have been a competitive species,
or would we have lived alongside them like
in the Geico commercials?
Paleoanthropologist Will Harcourt-Smith says
that unless humans and Neanderthals actively
kept themselves separate from each other,
the Neanderthals probably would have been
assimilated.
The problem the Neanderthals had was that
their population was much smaller than the
human population.
Evidence to back up his theory is DNA tests
show that humans and Neanderthals did interbreed.
If you were born outside of Africa, there
is a good chance that 1.5 to 2.1 percent of
your DNA comes from Neanderthals.
If the Neanderthals weren’t killed off because
of some other mitigating factors, like disease
or weather change, perhaps more Neanderthal
DNA would have been passed on to modern humans
and this could have led to more prevalent
Neanderthal traits in humans.
5.
What Happens if a Hole Opens Up on an Airplane
While it’s Flying?
It is by far one of the biggest movie tropes
of all time: There’s a hole in an airplane,
it sucks people out, and they fall to their
deaths.
Since it’s been in so many movies, it has
to be real, right?
First off, if a hole does open in an airplane,
it’s not going to be because someone opened
a door mid-flight.
It’s physically impossible to open a passenger
door on modern planes while they are in flight
because the cabins have a higher pressure
than the outside, so there is around 6 pounds
per square inch of differential pressure against
a door that is hundreds of square inches.
But what happened if, for whatever reason,
a giant hole forms in the side of the plane
that you’re aboard?
If that’s the case, there would be an explosive
decompression, which would cause someone standing
next to the hole to be sucked out.
If someone is buckled into their seat near
the hole, they won’t fly out because plane
seats are secured into the plane so that they
won’t fly out the hole.
In other words: when the flight attendants
tell you to buckle up, do what they say.
Now all you have to worry about is possibly
being violently thrown off a flight that you
paid for so that the airline’s staff can
fly instead.
4.
What Would Happen if You Fell Into a Volcano?
There’s pretty much no hope for this one.
You’d die, but the interesting question
is how would you die if you fell into a volcano?
Would you drown like Gollum in The Lord of
the Rings?
Or would you burn to death?
If you fell into a volcano, you’d fall onto
a pool of magma, which is molten rock that
is below the earth.
The difference between magma and lava is that
lava is molten rock that has come to the surface.
Nevertheless, magma and lava behave very similarly
when it comes to falling on it.
Magma and lava are about two-to-three times
denser than water and it can be thousands
to millions of times more viscous than water,
so it isn’t as easily deformed.
It would be like landing on wet cement.
You’d make a small indentation, but wouldn’t
submerge or sink in.
The good news is that you may be dead before
hitting the magma.
As you fall and get closer to the magma, your
lungs could char or you might asphyxiate.
If you aren’t killed while falling, then
hitting the magma at a high rate of speed
will probably break your neck or skull, which
should kill you.
If you do survive all that, your body will
burst into flames the instant you hit the
magma and you’ll melt into the magma or
become specks of ash.
So try to avoid jumping into an active volcano,
alright?
3.
What Would Happen if We Collided with Another
Universe?
In the multiverse theory, there are an infinite
number of universes running parallel to our
own.
And parallel is exactly how we want the universes
to run, because if one collides with our own,
we’re in big trouble.
The good news is that we won’t be able to
tell it’s happening because it will happen
so fast.
In fact, the exterior wall of the other universe
will be traveling nearly at the speed of light
when it hits us.
Anthony Aguirre, a physicist at the University
of California-Santa Cruz, says that if we
could slow it down, it would look like a giant
mirror crashing down on us.
It would look like a mirror because the outer
boundary of the other universe would reflect
light.
After that, we won’t feel anything because
we’ll no longer exist.
Boy, isn’t this becoming one heck of a feel-good
list?
2.
What Would Happen if You Didn’t Shower or
Bathe for a Year?
Obviously, you’d stink.
Dead skin would accumulate on top of your
skin and part of that dead skin is a protein
that is really smelly.
Also, bacteria would grow on your skin and
when it mixes with sweat, it gives off a terrible
odor.
Brown clumps will also grow in areas where
your body produces the most oil, like behind
your ears and under your arms.
Your head would itch something fierce, because
of all the dead skin accumulated on top of
it.
Acne and puss bumps will also become common.
Your groin will also be another major problem
area because rashes could become common.
It’s even possible that the scum between
your toes will spread to your groin.
One of the biggest problems you’d face is
infection.
If you cut yourself, the first thing you’re
supposed to do is wash the cut so it doesn’t
get infected.
So if you’re covered in bacteria, that means
you’re more likely to get a soft issue infection.
Finally, if you wanted to return to normal
(and let’s be honest, who wouldn’t?),
the bad news is that it would take several
weeks.
That means if you want to try this experiment
– which we beg you not to do – you may
not want to set up a date within the first
month of showering again.
1.
What Would Happen if Every Species Became
Self-Aware and Intelligent
In the Planet of the Apes films, we have a
problem when one species becomes intelligent
and self-aware.
But what would happen if all species suddenly
became self-aware and intelligent?
Innes Cuthill, a behavioral ecologist at the
University of Bristol, thinks that it will
be an all-out war between the species.
Humans would probably set out to wipe out
any animals we’d view as threats like lions,
tigers, and bears (Oh my!
Yeah, we know).
Next, we’d have to kill off the primates
before they got organized because if they
somehow got ahold of human technology like
guns or even computers and learned how to
use them, we would be in big trouble.
Physically, they are much bigger, stronger,
and more agile than us, so if they became
smarter and used technology it could be too
hard for us to overcome.
But in the end, there is a good chance humans
would win the early stages of the war because
there are so many of us and we’re already
armed, plus we have already access to technology
and – most importantly – know how to use
it.
We just have to hope that something like bacteria
doesn’t gain intelligence, because a smart
bacterium could probably kill off all humans
(and everything else) and take over the planet.
Even if a bacterium doesn’t gain intelligence,
the war of the species would be horrible for
anyone who survives because ecosystems will
collapse and only things like cockroaches
will survive.